---
sidebar_position: 3
title: 📜 Policies and Expectations
---

## Participation 🤝
* You are expected to attend and/or participate in all course activities.
* If you're taking this course in-person, do not schedule meetings, appointments, or interviews during class times.
* You are responsible for maintaining a line of communication with me regarding your performance.
* You're encouraged to help your classmates via the channel.
  * this may count towards extra credit points when your grade needs it.
  * If you're not sure if your help would be considered cheating/plagiarism, reach out and ask.

## Communications 📡
### Announcements 📣
* I will be posting weekly announcements on Canvas.
* The announcements usually start with (TL;DR; - Too Long; Didn't Read) section summarizing the rest of the announcement.
* They will contain important updates regarding due dates, syllabus updates, information about the content covered.
* Make sure you connect Canvas to your email to get those announcements in your inbox.
  * and make sure you check your inbox 🙄

### MS Teams
* For *assignment-related questions* please ask you questions on the MS Teams channel and engage with your fellow classmates.
  * You're also encouraged to participate and answer any questions your fellow classmates may post on the board or on Canvas. **(this counts towards extra credit points)**
  * When posting a question about your code, you must include:
      * what you are trying to do
      * what have you already tried
      * code snippet
        * a Screenshot may be acceptable. However, something we can copy-paste would be greatly appreciated (GitHub Gist or code sandbox) 
### Email 📧
* When can you use email?
  * You have a grading-related question;
  * You have a personal matter to discuss;
  * If you have a technical question, please use the class's MS Teams (not a private DM).
* For all email communications:
  * Please note `IT4063C` in the email subject.
  * Please copy the TA and instructor on all emails. We are an instructional team, and you'll get a faster response/resolution if you copy us both on the email.
  * Use Your School email
  * Send the email to my school email [yahya.gilany@uc.edu](mailto:yahya.gilany@uc.edu).
* please review my [Service Level Agreement](sla) for more (important) info about when to expect a response.

## Coursework Submissions

### Quality Expectation 🏅
- Make sure to closely follow the instructions and submit work in the specified formats.
- Make sure to always review and adhere to the the [Code Style Guide](/guides/code-style) when working on your assignments

## Grading Procedure
* Assignments will be graded based on:
  * [Your self assessment and evaluation](#self-assessment-and-grading).
  * Assignment automated tests and checks.
  * Code and Assignment Review.
  * For Group Assignments, peer evaluation will be taken into consideration

### Late Policy ⏳
* No late Quizzes will be accepted once the due date has passed.
* 20% of the assignment total would be deducted for every late day.
  * *i.e., 5 late days = 20% × 5 days = 0.*
* **However, ☝️** you have a total of **7 slip days** that you can apply to your semester's labs, and projects *(No Questions Asked)*.
  * No Single assignment can be extended more than 5 days.
  * You have to explicitly request that we use your slip days credit on an assignment on the Canvas Submission.

:::danger No Exceptions
or additional extensions will be given except for the two University-approved situations:
  * Accommodations requested and verified from the Office of Disability Services. 
  * Religious holidays, when I am notified of them in advance.
:::

### Self Assessment and Grading
* All assignments will have a `README.md` file at the root directory of the project.
* On the self assessment, you're required to provide:
  * Self-reflection
  * Self-assessment of the grade you think you deserve with justifications.
    * If you complete all the required items on the assignment checklist and they work, give your self the full grade.
    * If you leave out some of the required items, or you're not sure if you satisfied all the requirements, or think you've done everything but it still doesn't work properly, deduct a few points and justify that in the comments.
      * When grading you may receive higher grade that you gave your self 😉.
    * If nothing works (but you tried) and we can see that you tried in the code, give your self half the points.
    * If you say you did something when you didn't or not submit the assignment at all, you'll receive zero points for the assignment.
      * be honest .
      * be active.
  
## Course Evaluation 👍
The School of Information Technology requires that each course is evaluated each time it is taught.  The School uses a confidential web-based system, CoursEval, for these evaluations.  At the beginning of finals week,you will receive an email from the School Head, with “CoursEval” as the topic.  There is a link on that email that takes you directly to the evaluation.  The online system is anonymous.  I will receive only a summary report of combined data after final grades have been submitted.

As an instructor, I greatly value your input regarding the strengths and areas for improvement of this course.  Your feedback is essential for me to continually improve instruction and provide for quality student learning and outcomes.