---
sidebar_position: 1
title: 'Module 1: Env. Setup'
sidebar_label: 'Overview'
---


- [ ] Record a welcome video (Data, Data everywhere)
  - How the course is structured
  - What kinds of content should you expect
  - How much time you have to spend on each week
- [ ] Record a module overview video
- [ ] Record Videos on setting up the env.
  - Git
  - Python3
  - Anaconda Virtual Envirnoments
    - Why do we use Anaconda?
  - VSCode or different IDEs
- [ ] Refresh on Python.

## Overview 
In the first learning module, we will learn the definition of data science and its related knowledge domains. This module will introduce the history and also the current broad applications of data science, AI, and machine learning techniques. Students will understand what jobs are available and what skill sets are sought-after by professionals in data science. 

## Learning Outcomes
Define key terms data science and its related knowledge domains
Understand the history and evolution of data science
Describe the modern applications and use cases of data science
Describe the skill sets and the job market of data science 

## Checklist 

## Media

## Resources


______
## Support
### Announcement
Welcome to IT4063C! I'm excited to have you in the class and look forward to your _contributions to the learning community._

To begin, I recommend taking a few minutes to review the course syllabus, and explore the material we’ll cover each week. 
The course requires some technologies setup, all of this would be available through the sandbox, however, if you'd like to do this on your computer, please review the installation setup. Click Discussions to see forums where you can discuss the course material with fellow students taking the class.

If you have questions about course content, please post them on Teams Forum (not email) to get help from others in the course and for my response to be shared with all.

Good luck as you get started, and I hope you enjoy the course!

