---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Transcripts
---
## Welcome Video
TODO: Welcome to IT4063C

Welcome to IT4063C. This is one of last course you have in the Data Analytics Track. My focus in this course is piece all what you've learned in the track together and introduce you to different tools and technologies commonly used in data analytics. We'll also introduce different skills techniques to be an effective data analyst, such as effective use of visualization and storytelling. 
We will also introduce the basics of Machine Learning. While we may not get to dig very deep into it, you'll learn enough to set you on the beginning of that journey and be able to carry it forward on your own. 

This is a hands-on course, we'll be using Python as the main programming language, with an ecosystem of associated libraries. and will get our hands dirty with some real problem and datasets.

I'm Yahya Gilany.

I'm currently pursuing a PhD in computer science at Carnegie Mellon's Human Computer Interaction Institute where I take a data-driven approach to studying educational systems and explore how we can use technology to augment learning environments. Before Carnegie Mellon, I founded Zipfian Academy, a twelve-week full-time and in-person immersive data science program. Aimed at teaching practical data science skills through hands-on project based curriculum. Now, I first discovered my love of all things data while studying computer science and physics at UC Berkeley. Out of school, I worked at Alpine Data Labs developing distributed machine learning algorithms for predictive analytics on Hadoop And while I love the problems I got the opportunity to solve as an engineer, I realized very quickly that my passion was really in sharing what I know in the most creative ways I can. Which brings us to here and now. So why data science, why now, and what can you do with it? These are the questions you'll learn the answers to soon enough, but it's no secret that data surrounds us, permeating all aspects of our daily life. How can we leverage all that data produced for productive and impactful applications? Well, part of the solution lies in engineering and technology, part in business use cases, but all of it rests on a solid foundation of fundamental concepts and techniques that any competent data practitioner needs to know. One of the struggles I see with any newcomer to data science, however, whether they are an experienced engineer, who has built production systems, or an academic who has done years of research, is really where the theory meets the data, or rather, how to apply what might work in an idealized environment to a real application. And unfortunately, most books, courses, tutorials, out there provide you with the questions, the data, and the environment a priori to start working, leaving a large conceptual gap between what you have been taught and what you need to know to work with real data in the wild to go out and create applications of your own. In contrast, throughout these videos, every data set you work with comes from a real data generating process, whether that is civic data that someone input manually, user data created from an individual's interactions with a web application, or anything in between. And the example first, math second mentality of the course demonstrates the intuition behind the theory, and the hands-on manner to teach you not to shy away from undomesticated problems, as I call them. Through this case study driven approach, you leverage algorithmic thinking and the power to code to gain insight into machine learning methods, learn where they break, and where their limits really are, and see how to effectively apply them to real problems you, or your organization might face. As such, every lesson has accompanying code, some extra exercises to help you gain a deeper understanding of the topics at hand, and I believe the best and fastest way to learn is by examples, so there will be plenty of those. All of the code links and resources I reference throughout these videos can be found on my website at www.hopelessoptimism.com/data-science-fundamentals. Also, I've written a book that covers many of the same topics as these videos, that you can find on my website as well. The book, however, goes into a bit more depth on certain concepts, contains extended exercises, questions, examples, and is suited for motivated autodidacts, current students, and really anyone who prefers a physical object to digital content. So if you prefer the medium of print, enjoy an engaging narrative, or simply just want a convenient and compelling reference on data science, be sure to check out the book. These videos don't assume any background in software engineering, statistics, or advanced math, but you should've programmed before, and be comfortable in a development environment. It will help if you have taken introductory probability, or a linear algebra course, though by no means is that background knowledge assumed. And you will get the most out of these videos if you are an aspiring data scientist, a statistician or researcher looking to apply your quantitative knowledge in a practical way, or an engineer looking to get an introduction to machine learning and the data science process to build more intelligent and automated applications. If nothing else, by the end of this video course, you'll have analyzed a number of data sets from the wild, you would've built a handful of applications, and applied machine learning algorithms in meaningful ways to get real results. And while all along the way, learning the best practices and computational techniques of professional data scientists. More specifically you learn how to acquire data that is openly accessible on the internet by working with APIs, you see how to parse XML and JSON data to load it into a relational database and you get hands-on experience with the Pi data ecosystem by manipulating and modeling data. You explore and transform data with the pandas library, perform statistical analysis with si-pi and num-pi, build regression models with stats models, and train machine learning algorithms with scikit learn. And all throughout, you learn to test your assumptions and models with rigorous validation. Finally, you learn how to share your results through effective data visualization. The road will be long, hard, and frustrating at times, but if you stick with it, I promise that it'll be fun and endlessly rewarding. Both as you journey through these videos, and forever after as you practice data science yourself. And additionally, this video course is intended to serve as a comprehensive resource that provides the necessary foundation for further study in data science. Hopefully I have whet your appetite for the potential of data science and convinced you that it's one of the most valuable and necessary skills of the twenty-first century. So if you'd like to get your hands dirty with code, learn by example, and gain insight into how data science works in the real world, you've come to the right place. Because data's always dirty, algorithms won't converge, and you'll never have enough labeled data.
## 